ISO 10646-1 update of the fixed fonts
-------------------------------------

Markus Kuhn <http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/> -- 2000-12-10

This is an update of all -Misc-Fixed-* fonts in the subdirectory

  xc/fonts/bdf/misc/

We have extended all old -Misc-Fixed-* fonts from their original ISO
646.119-IRV or ISO 8859-1 repertoire to a comprehensive repertoire in
the ISO 10646-1 encoding (UCS, Unicode). All extended fonts have been
carefully tested to cover a repertoire that includes all characters
found in ISO 6937, ISO 8859-1,2,3,4,5,7,8,9,10,13,14,15,16, and
CP1251/1252. The non-bold/italic fonts also cover the Adobe/Microsoft
WGL4 repertoire, which includes the characters of all MS-DOS code
pages. Some fonts (6x13, 9x15, 9x18, 10x20) cover considerably more,
including the full European Unicode subset CEN MES-3B, which covers
all Latin, Greek, Cyrillic, Armenian, Georgian, Thai, phonetic, and
mathematical characters.

Eight new ISO 10646-1 fonts were added, for which there was no
equivalent version in the X11R6.4 distribution before, and which
should be highly useful:

  6x13O.bdf   -Misc-Fixed-Medium-O-Semicondensed--13-120-75-75-C-60-ISO10646-1
  7x13O.bdf   -Misc-Fixed-Medium-O-Normal--13-120-75-75-C-70-ISO10646-1
  8x13O.bdf   -Misc-Fixed-Medium-O-Normal--13-120-75-75-C-80-ISO10646-1
  9x18.bdf    -Misc-Fixed-Medium-R-Normal--18-120-100-100-C-90-ISO10646-1
  9x18B.bdf   -Misc-Fixed-Bold-R-Normal--18-120-100-100-C-90-ISO10646-1
  12x13ja.bdf -Misc-Fixed-Medium-R-Normal-ja-13-120-75-75-C-120-ISO10646-1
  18x18ja.bdf -Misc-Fixed-Medium-R-Normal-ja-18-120-100-100-C-180-ISO10646-1
  18x18ko.bdf -Misc-Fixed-Medium-R-Normal-ko-18-120-100-100-C-180-ISO10646-1

6x13O and 8x13O are oblique/italic fonts. 9x18 is an improved variant
of 9x15 designed to have enough space to allow the unproblematic use
of overstriking combining characters, 18x18ja and 18x18ko provide
Japanese and Korean doublewidth ideographic characters for 9x18, and
12x13ja provides Japanese and Hangul doublewidth ideographic
characters for 6x13.

This update contains not only new ISO10646-1 fonts, but also a
collection of 8-bit fonts that were automatically generated from the
ISO10646-1 fonts. All these derived 8-bit fonts have the
-REGISTRY-ENCODING part of the XLFD in the filename (e.g.,
6x13-ISO8859-1.bdf). Some of these derived fonts replace old 8-bit
fonts (with some stylistic improvements and bug fixes), others provide
new urgently needed 8-bit encoding alternatives for very widely-used
font sizes.

The ISO10646-1 fonts in this package (except for 12x13ja, 18x18ja, and
18x18ko) contain no characters above 0x31FF. This avoids the very
inefficient allocation and transmission of a >700 kB large XFontStruct
structure, which would happen if the (not very important) ligatures
and symbols above 0xf000 were present.

Installation instructions:

  - Only the directory xc/fonts/bdf/misc/ (if you patch the X source
    distribution) or /usr/X11/lib/X11/fonts/misc/ (if you patch a system
    installation) will be affected by this update.

  - Do in xc/fonts/bdf/misc/ or /usr/X11/lib/X11/fonts/misc/ a

      rm 7x13euro.bdf 7x13euroB.bdf heb6x13.bdf heb8x13.bdf 7x14rk.bdf

    because these old 8-bit files are now superseeded by the new
    *-ISO8859-15.bdf, *-ISO8859-8.bdf, and *-JISX0201.1976-0 files.

  - If you patch the X source tree, move from this tarball the files

      *.bdf fonts.alias Imakefile

    into xc/fonts/bdf/misc/.

  - If you patch an installed system, move instead from this package
    the files

      *.pcf.gz fonts.alias

    into /usr/X11/lib/X11/fonts/misc/ and then call "mkfontdir" there
    and also execute "xset fp rehash".

The new *-*.bdf files will not be necessary any more as soon as the
font reencoding engine in the BDF backend is operational, because then
these encodings can be generated by the X server automatically and
on-the-fly from the ISO 10646-1 files (perhaps in XFree86 4.1?).

The font files in this package were all automatically generated by a
few Perl scripts. Please do not edit these font files if you want to
make contributions. Instead, if you want to edit the fonts, please get
the latest original BDF files in

  http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/download/ucs-fonts.tar.gz

which also contains the ucs2any.pl and bdftruncate.pl scripts and the
encoding mapping files that were used to generate all the font files
found in this tarball. See also the README file in there for further
hints on how to use these fonts.

This package is available from

  http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/download/ucs-fixed.tar.gz

Please send any feedback and patches related to these fonts to

  Markus.Kuhn@cl.cam.ac.uk

or to

  fonts@xfree86.org

Markus

-- 
Markus G. Kuhn, Computer Laboratory, University of Cambridge, UK
